The Great Magellanic Cloud (LMC), is a small companion of our Milky Way.
It can be seen with the naked eye as a faint, gray spot in the Dorado constellation.
It is a favorite hunting place for astronomers and has been studied by many telescopes.
Its most spectacular feature is the Tarantula mist,
a glowing area of ​​glowing gas and energetic star formation.
Hubble was able to take a picture zoomed in on this mist,
which reveals the dynamics of this area in our universe for the first time in such detail.
Hubblecast Episode 44: Hubble spies on the Tarantula mist.
Presented by Dr. J. (aka Dr. Joe Liske)
This part of the Tarantula mist is one of the most dynamic,
and show the area around the SuperNova remnant NGC 2060.
These wispy shoots of gas and dust are the only visible remains of a star that has exploded.
After blowing out these smoky remains
the core of the star that formed NGC 2060 collapsed into a pulsar (a type of neutron star).
The Tarantula nebula glows so brightly, because the atoms in its hydrogen gas are illuminated by bright,
newly born stars that have recently been formed.
These baby stars shine with powerful ultra-violet radiation, which ionizes the gas
and make it red and green.
The light is so intense that - although a 170,000 light years away
and outside the galaxy -
the Tarantula mist on a dark night
visible without observers on Earth.
But the largest and brightest stars in the Tarantula are actually just outside of Hubble's view.
This wider but less detailed image of the Tarantula mist
was taken with the MPG / ESO 2.2-meter telescope, at the La Silla observatory, in Chile.
It shows us the source that causes a lot of Tarantula's light:
the RMC 136 super-star cluster.
So, it was not so long ago that astronomers were still debating or
this intensive light came from a compact star cluster, or perhaps from an as yet unknown type of superstar.
It is only in the last 20 years that we have been able to demonstrate that it is actually a star cluster
- although it houses some of the most massive stars ever observed!
The Tarantula mist also houses SuperNova 1987a.
Of all supernovas that we have observed since the invention of the telescope
this is the only one so close to ourselves.
As we zoom out, we see the magnitude of the Tarantula nebula clearly contrasting with the galaxy that it houses.
It is the largest starry room we know in this region of the universe
and one of the most attractive places in the night sky.
Hubblecast is produced by ESA / Hubble, in the European Southern Observatory in Germany.
The Hubble mission is an international collaboration project between NASA and the European Space Agency.
Transcription by ESA / Hubble; translation M.Smit.
Now that you know more about Hubble (in space), you can also get up to date with the latest news about the telescopes (on Earth):
The 'ESOcast' brings the most interesting to the attention of the European Southern Observatory with its powerful telescopes, which is perched high on the Chilean Andes Mountains;
in the southern hemisphere where the best locations are for astronomical observations.